we lead off with some breaking news
Hamas political leader Ismael hania has
been assassinated in tan Hamas said in
social media post that hania and his
bodyguard had been killed at their
residence in the country no one
immediately claimed responsibility for
the assassination but suspicion
immediately fell on Israel which had
vowed to kill Hanah and other leaders of
Hamas over the terrorist groups October
7th attacks on Israel
reporter Alona marova is following this
breaking news Alona what do we know
about this attack so far so what we have
so far are two separate statements one
is from Iran's revolutionary guards and
the other one is from Hamas so I'll
quote the first one Iran's revolutionary
Gods say that the residence of isma Kia
the head of the political office of
Hamas Islamic resistance was hit in
Teran and as a result of this incident
him and one of his bodyguards were
killed then we also have Hamas they
confirm this attack and they blame
Israel right away they call it a zenist
attack and I'm quoting here they also
worn of grave escalation and they also
call this attack a cowardly act that
will not go unpunished so talking about
Israel of course as you said we haven't
gotten any confirmation yet and we
shouldn't expect it in really short time
usually they don't confirm it right away
so and Israel has been trying to
actually Target hania for a while after
the October 7th terror attack and
apparently we we still need to wait the
for the confirmation but according to
Iran's revolutionary guards and to Hamas
itself uh he was successfully targeted
targeted and I also want to remind you
that K was in Iran for the inauguration
of the Iran's new president and he was
targeted there in his residence all
right Alona marova with our news team
thank you very much thank you
and for more on this we're joined by
Benham Ben tblu he is a senior fellow at
the foundation for the defense of
democracies and he joins us from
Washington Benham welcome back to the
show explain this to us how significant
is hania's
death well it's great to be with you
again this is a huge political setback
for the runback terror group known as
Hamas uh hania as you know was in tan
where the patron uh of that group
actually resides siia had met with
Iran's supreme leader and Iran's ninth
president the newest President massud
pesan right after being sworn in uh mere
hours before you couldn't have a starter
contrast he was hobnobbing with senior
political religious and military
officials from the Islamic Republic
seated next to members of the uh
constellation of Terror and proxy forces
that tan calls the axes of resistance
chanting death to America and death to
Israel and then hours later this news as
you had just reported uh is breaking I
think if you had to contrast this with
the other reported assassination uh that
we had spoken about earlier today a
Lebanese high-ranking military official
in the suburbs of beut that one is
designed to throw a terror group off
balance by robbing them of a certain
capability by targeting a person that
has a particular military aptitude this
is designed to send a strong political
message and things could go 5050 right
now with the rest of the Gaz of War as
well as the foreign patri in Iran
because this attack did happen on their
soil should we assume then that Israel
is behind this assassination we know
that they've targeted top Hamas leaders
they've made no secret about
that I do believe in this case it's it's
quite possible to connect the dots I'm
not sure if the uh Israelis will ever
come out and potentially confirm uh this
story they may have a political
rationale to do so a bit later on but a
the reporting timeline right now is
quite tight and B they don't always
confirm uh these things but as you
mentioned there is a certain trend line
here but even if we zoom out uh there's
a different picture and there's a
picture not created by analysts or
anything else there's a picture uh
related by a Former Intelligence
minister in Iran Mr Unice if I'm not
mistaken where he talked about how
punctured uh the state Security Services
war and I believe he even said uh that
no Iranian official should sleep soundly
at night ever since he said that and
this was many years ago well before
covid um
you've seen a whole series of things go
go bump in the night
assassinations um of people even in
uniform on Iranian territory targets uh
kinetic and cyber against Iranian
military nuclear facilities so this
seems to be the latest in keeping with
that Trend and many poter a finger
during all of those assassination
attempts and Espionage and cyber and
sabotage operations had a foreign
intelligence service with this
capability and intent and when you put
all of these together Israel is most
likely the actor behind it you said this
assassination uh sends a statement what
will it actually mean for Hamas and its
organization well uh in the Gaza Strip
in particular uh it could mean two
things one it could lead to the
expending of the military capabilities
and assets and kind of the coming out uh
from using some of the human Shields and
and embedment and and embedment within
some of the refugee populations uh in
the go strip and an expending of the
military forces and assets they have or
it could lead to Greater uh external
involvement to bad Hamas uh if indeed
the AXS of resistance sees uh that that
piece is about to be taken off the chess
board and the Israelis double down
trying to press their advantage again
things could go quite literally 5050
right now it could lead to a major
uptick uh that pushes the israelies back
or could lead these relies or provide
these relies the opportunity to take the
advantage and militarily double down
because this was a politically stunning
move uh quite like what happened in
January 2020 uh in Iraq when the US
killed Iran's Chief terrorist and head
of the ks force uh Major General kasum
sumani are there successors waiting in
the wings for hania and are they likely
to be more militant less militant what
are we likely to
see it's unclear but listen this is the
Middle East things can always get much
worse not better uh but I will say this
there is again a sharp contrast in the
logic of going after a political leader
of a terrorist organization uh versus
someone with a certain localized
capability the intent if one is looking
uh to cut off the head of the snake here
is not to Rob them uh of a certain War
fighting capability it's that stunning
kind of political effect that is usually
followed up by something else so again
all eyes should be on the region right
now uh not uh to assess political
secession and what may happen with a
potentially different Secretary General
of Hamas in particular what may happen
in Doha uh where that group uh does have
its political headquarters but really
what will happen on the ground in the
Israel Gaza War as well as in all the
other kind of connected fronts uh for
example a couple of hours ago for the
first time ever there was a report that
uh Iran back Shia militias in Iraq had
fired for the first time ever since
October 7 a ballistic missile uh towards
Israel so there could be an
intensification of the campaign uh
outside of Israel uh against that
country in the aftermath of this news
can you tell us a little bit more about
Hana and how his role differed from
maybe the military structure that was
still within
Gaza I tend to believe that you some of
the cleavages or stem charts that exist
in Western analytical and academic
circles about a political Wing versus a
military Wing is is a bit more
projection and us
foisting a a different distinction
without a difference onto some of these
group structures um I know for example
that you know hania's uh distance uh
from you could say the battlefield does
not mean he would be any less involved
or does not mean he would be any less
involved or not have any kind of
knowledge uh in operations particularly
operations that ended up becoming uh the
October 7 terrorist attack this person
oversaw the structure uh the funding uh
the channel the pulling away of money uh
and assets and resources uh to make
Hamas what exactly it is which is this
resilient uh terror group uh in the Gaza
Strip and what about Iran itself this
happening uh on the Eve or on the uh
just in the immediate aftermath of the
inauguration of its president what does
it mean for this country what kind of
statement does it send about them and as
you've already touched on their security
capabilities um I think in a post April
13 April 14 World and and that was
really a world in which the Islamic
Republic which has fought many of its
covert and Shadow and proxy wars um from
a distance and and and without kind of
an over kinetic uh element with Israel
now there's always a non-zero chance
after the regime fired drones cruise
missiles and ballistic missiles directly
to Israel there's always the chance that
it could step out of the Shadows again
and the analytical question has been
what could be the trigger to get them to
step out of the Shadows if I had to
guess this wouldn't be it again it's
very different to go after a whole
series of irgc commanders in Syria and
spill Iranian blood and have that be a
different threshold for the use of force
than to go after uh one element of
Iran's acts of resistance on Iranian
soil but nonetheless because this act
did happen on Iranian soil their likely
is going to be a significant Iranian
element in the response whether that's
just quarantine to rhetorical uh or more
financial and material support to its
proxies that remains to be seen but the
fact that the irgc and many SE
semiofficial news outlets were so quick
uh to confirm this news uh tells you
that the regime is in in the business
right now waiting through what has
happened and is probably thinking
through a respon
all right that's Benham Ben tobl with
the foundation for the defense of
democracies thank you very
much thank
you and we go over now to DW
correspondent Rebecca ritters in
Jerusalem Rebecca good morning this news
is still quite fresh are there any
reactions there so
far yeah this is incredibly fresh very
much a developing breaking story stepen
so we have had to to to date no
reactions from the Israelis and as you
heard from the guest who was just
speaking there it's very possible in
fact quite probable that we won't hear
from Israel unlike with the retaliatory
strike we saw earlier last night earlier
on Tuesday evening in beay rout kiding
um a key Hezbollah Commander we will
where we had you know almost instant
confirmation from uh the Israeli
military that they participated in that
attack it's very likely that we will not
hear from Israel on this particular
strike though it it is certainly looking
all accounts from what we're hearing and
from what we've been hearing from Hamas
and Iran uh that it is likely uh that
Israel was responsible for this attack
though we may never get that
confirmation from Israel and this is
certainly uh going to be a shock if not
a surprise if you can separate those two
things is hania was certainly uh very
much on The Wanted list on Israel's
Wanted list and Israel promised they
would go after the leaders of Hamas in
the aftermath of the vicious attack on
October 7th and they uh if confirmed
that's certainly what they have been
doing here now we have had some reaction
from Hamas uh the terror group has
confirmed that Ismael Han was killed in
Iram blaming uh blaming Israel for that
attack and a spokesman for the group has
said this was a cowardly act that will
not uh be in vain it's something that
they uh were prepared to they said we're
waging an open War to liberate Jerusalem
and we were ready or we are ready to pay
uh an incredibly high price so uh
obviously this news is going to be
shocking for those across the region but
it may not come as a huge surprise isma
Han was also uh named by the IC uh uh is
um uh the head prosecutor there uh
requesting an arrest warrant for isal
hania along with Yaya Sina and Muhammad
daf to other leaders now Israel claiming
that they did in fact eliminate Muhammad
da in an attack uh a few weeks ago that
has still not been 100% confirmed but
Israel saying that is more than likely
that he was killed in that attack and
now we're seeing another leader um is
hania uh also targeted so uh the only
person left on that ICC list list is
Haya sinoa who is believed to still be
alive in Gaza now of course this is
ratcheting up an already uh tense uh
time in the region uh we are hearing
from all accounts we haven't had final
confirmation but it does appear that
unlike what we were hearing with the
attack that just happened earlier this
evening in Beirut where Israel uh was
thought to have warned the United States
before carrying out that attack it
certainly appears that this attack
happened uh without any for uh prior
warning to the United States now one
thing that this is of course going to
affect is the hostage negotiations is M
Haner played a key role he was a key
interlocutor in those negotiations for
uh the Hamas side he often traveled as a
a delegation as part of a Hamas
delegation uh to conduct those talks now
obviously that is going to his death is
going to play a significant role in
those ongoing
negotiations DW correspondent Rebecca
Ritter's in Jerusalem thank you very
much